---
layout: post
title:  Force.com Advanced Developer Programming Assignment Complete!
description: I just finished the Programming Assignment and wanted to provide some input for anyone taking it in the future. Without giving away the assignment here are my thoughts-  Allow plenty of time  - The instructions suggest you allocate 20+ hours to complete the assignment. I think this is somewhat low as it took me roughly 30 hours to develop, test and deploy. Start early and knock it out before the the exam deadline. I got wrapped up on a project and, of course, finished it in the night before. I t
date: 2010-02-03 18:00:00 +0300
image:  '/images/slugs/force-com-advanced-developer-programming-assignment-complete.jpg'
tags:   ["salesforce"]
---
<p style="clear: both">I just finished the Programming Assignment and wanted to provide some input for anyone taking it in the future. Without giving away the assignment here are my thoughts:</p><p style="clear: both"><strong>Allow plenty of time</strong> - The instructions suggest you allocate 20+ hours to complete the assignment. I think this is somewhat low as it took me roughly 30 hours to develop, test and deploy. Start early and knock it out before the the exam deadline. I got wrapped up on a project and, of course, finished it in the night before. I tend to work better under pressure.</p><p style="clear: both"><strong>Read the requirements thoroughly and often</strong> - The requirements are narrative in form; something you would expect to receive from a customer. I went through the requirements and created my own design doc which outlined objects, sharing model, triggers, controllers, Visualforce pages, workflow, security, etc. This is the document that I worked from.</p><p style="clear: both"><strong>Build in Production and code in Sandbox</strong> - I did virtually everything in Production which limited the amount of time needed to deploy. I built everything that I could in Production and then once I felt the solution was solid, I refreshed a Sandbox and cranked out the Triggers, Controllers, utility classes and Visualforce pages. Essentially declarative work was done in Production while code development was, of course, done in the Sandbox.</p><p style="clear: both"><strong>Test, deploy and retest</strong> - The test cases took some time but I wanted really strong test coverage. I think I only had one class with less than 100% coverage. After deploying all of my code to Production, I loaded some test data and went through all of the use cases to make sure it functioned as expected.</p><p style="clear: both"></p>The essay portion at the testing center was fairly straight forward and took about 30 minutes. It was 6 questions as to how, why and for what reasons did I design the application the way I did.<br class="final-break" style="clear: both" />
