---
layout: post
title:  Overview - SAP BusinessObjects BI OnDemand for Salesforce.com
description: SAP just released their BusinessObjects BI OnDemand solution for Salesforce.com  which is a subscription-based, SaaS solution empowering sales professionals to explore, report and share data from Salesforce.com. It looks like SAP is trying to play nicely with Salesforce.com and is positioning this product as a BI alternative to actual reporting in Salesforce.com. There was no bashing of Salesforce.com in the text and the solution is AppExchange certified. > For companies concerned about the spe
date: 2010-02-25 13:13:05 +0300
image:  '/images/slugs/overview-sap-businessobjects-bi-ondemand-for-salesforce-com.jpg'
tags:   ["salesforce", "sap"]
---
<p style="clear: both">SAP just released their <a href="http://ondemand.com/salesforce/" target="_blank">BusinessObjects BI OnDemand solution for Salesforce.com</a> which is a subscription-based, SaaS solution empowering sales professionals to explore, report and share data from Salesforce.com. It looks like SAP is trying to play nicely with Salesforce.com and is positioning this product as a BI alternative to actual reporting in Salesforce.com. There was no bashing of Salesforce.com in the text and the solution is AppExchange certified.</p><blockquote style="clear: both"><p>For companies concerned about the speed of reporting or size of Salesforce data sets, SAP BusinessObjects BI OnDemand provides a preconfigured data warehouse that can be implemented in as little as a day. The data warehouseprovides a duplicate set of data that can dramatically improve reporting time and speed information delivery.</p></blockquote><p style="clear: both">Since they offer a free trial and I have a few years of SAP experience I thought I'd give it a spin. The <a href="https://bi.ondemand.com/user_registrations/new" target="_blank">signup process</a> was pretty painless and after logging in I set up my connection to a production org (looks like sandbox connections are not an option).</p><p style="clear: both">The entire application is essentially a series of Flex applications. After logging into my org I was presented with the following screen displaying the metadata for the org and allowing me to drag and drop fields from any object to create a dataset.</p><p style="clear: both">It then presents you with a preview of the dataset and the associated SOQL query. Once you confirm the query and save the dataset the data is imported from your org into the warehouse's datastore.</p><p style="clear: both">You can then see your newly created dataset in the list of available datasets.</p><p style="clear: both">After clicking on the dataset you are presented with the main UI for that dataset. Your options here include:</p><ul style="clear: both"><li>View data in the dataset</li><li>Perform ad-hoc queries against the dataset</li><li>Explore the dataset to slice and dice it to create more specific datasets or visualizations</li><li>Share the dataset with other uses (similar functionality to Google Docs sharing). I also noticed that you can share the actual web service address.</li><li>Download the data in CSV format</li><li>Combine with other datasets for more detailed reporting</li><li>Duplicate the dataset</li><li>Delete the dataset</li></ul><p style="clear: both">With the Explore tab you can drill down into your data and run various scenario to create your own dataset and save results as a visualization that you can share or display with an iframe.</p><p style="clear: both">The product has a ton of features (it's based off of Crystal Reports which <a href="/2007/10/10/suprise-sap-acquires-business-objects/" target="_blank">SAP bought in 2007</a>) and I only had time to try a few. If you are looking for a simple way to access and externally report on your Salesforce.com data, you might want to give SAP's BusinessObjects BI OnDemand solution good look.</p><br class="final-break" style="clear: both" />
